Welcome back in the previous step we used a direct URL to execute the currency exchange service
through the Zuul API gateway proxy.
When we use this URL.
This is the port for the API proxies so Gateway proxies running on 8 7 6 5 and we use the proxy to execute
the currency exchange service what we want to do now is when the currency calculation Service is calling
the currency exchange service.
We don't want the call to happen directly we would want the call to go through the API gateway that's basically
Zuul server.
So how do we get the currency calculation service the request from here to go through the Zuul API gateway proxy thing which
actually makes the call inside the currency conversion service is the proxy the currency exchange service
proxy.
The thing is we already configured the naming server.
The thing is all the important things that we use are registered with the naming server.
Number one the Exchange service is the currency exchange service is register the currency conversion.
Service is registered this Zuul API gateway also switches.
So all that we need to do here is I would need to say OK do not connect to the currency exchange service
feign connect to the Zuul API proxy.
I would want to get the application name for it.
So I'll say application dot properties I would want Zuul API gateway servers name.
I'll use this feign client.
You need to make a call to Netflix Zuul API gateway.
Server talk to the naming server and get the URI for it.
That's cool.
So now it would go through the API.
Server However there is another thing that we would need to change.
The thing is URI no longer currency exchange from EUR to INR.
There is something else that needs to be appended to this.
So you need to append the name of the application which is exposing that service so would need to append in currency
exchange service to the
URI.
So let's go to the service proxy in the get mapping append that stuff in.
So I'm appending currency exchange service coming this out and I'll copy it again so that we have a history of
what we are doing in here present.
So that's basically what we have right now.
So currency exchange service.
Now I can save this you can see that the currency conversion service application is launching
up ensure that you have all these applications shown on the screen running.
We need the Eureka server we need the Zuul API gateway and we need currency conversion Service and the
currency exchange service running.
So once you have all these running all that you need to do is to hit the URL currency converter feign.
So we are going through the feign.
So currency converter feign from USD to INR quantity 10.
So let's refresh.
This is the same URL which we used earlier.
I'm looking at the log for the Netflix Zuul API gateway server application you can use this hallow in here to navigate
between which logs you'd want to see I'm looking at the Netflix Zuul API gateway server so I am seeing a couple of
logs which are present in here what I'll do this I'll remove that and execute the request again to see the latest
one you can see that the URI is getting logged some details about the request actually not a lot of
details about the request its just printing the request wrapper these are shown inside the log if
you want to add more details you can go to the locking filter and add more request details in there.
What you are seeing right now is whenever I'm calling the currency converter service.
So whenever we are calling the currency calculation service through feign what's happening this is being
routed through the API gateway the service call is directly not going to the currency exchange service.
It is being routed through the gateway the gateway is executing the filter which is the logging
filter.
And invoking the currency exchange service what we're doing now is intercepting the call between the currency
calculation service and the currency exchange service.
Or let's say I would want the API gateway to be executed even before the currency calculation service is
invoked so at this point before a consumer invokes the service.
I would want it to go through the API gateway and later for the second time it would go through the
API gateway here when the currency calculation service would call the currency exchange service.
How do we do that.
So this is the URL which we are using until now.
What I would need to do is to send this request through the API gateway Zuul API gateway.
The URI would be app name hyphen URI right so the app name for the currency conversion application.
Let's go to the application dot properties to get that currency conversion service the app name is
currency conversion service.
Let's pick that up.
That's the one which would go in here in the URI is the complete URI down here.
It's localhost eight seven six five current conversion service currency converter feign from USD
to INR quantity ten OK very long request or actually very long.
URI I'll open up a new window put this in before executing this.
I would go down to the Netflix Zuul API gateway server application and clear the
console and let's execute this right now.
You should see two requests through the Netflix API gateway console.
You could see two times the logging filter is being executed the first time the call is to the currency
conversion service so you can see that the current conversion service currency converter feign this
is you the URI which being used.
And next when the currency conversion Service is calling the currency exchange service again it's going
through the Zuul API gateway.
That's pretty cool isn't it.
What we are doing in here is we're trying to make every call to the micro services go through the Zuul
API Gateway.
This would ensure that we have logs about everything if we want analytics we can do that implement security
you can implement them as part of your API gateway in this step and the previous steps we talked about
API gateways we implemented a logging filter with an API gateway and ensure that all the calls go through
the API gateway.
The next step we would switch towards distributed tracing.
Until then bye bye.